# Exercise 1.14

Draw the tree illustrating the process generated by the `count-change` procedure of Section 1.2.2 in making change for 11 cents. What are the orders of growth of the space and number of steps used by this process as the amount to be changed increases?

# Solution

## Order of Growth of Space

The maximum depth of the tree is obtained by that branch in which we count change for the full amount using only pennies.

The depth of this branch is equal to the full amount we're counting change for, i.e. the longest series of call is of length `n`.

Hence, the order of growth of space is `Θ(n)`.

## Order of Growth of Steps

We'll start with a simple example of the computation to understand the shape of the growth. Let's start with an example where we count change for an amount using only pennies. Ex. `(cc 6 1)`.

Notice that this is a linear process with the following steps:

- 6 `(cc n 1)` nodes, `∀ n > 0`
- 6 `(cc n 0)` nodes, `∀ n > 0`
- `(cc 0 1)`

The number of steps required to compute `(cc 6 1)` is:

```
R(6, 1) = (2 * 6) + 1
```

This can be genralized as shown:

```
R(n, 1) = 2n + 1
```

Hence the order of growth of steps for a single type of coin is `Θ(n)`.

Now, let's consider the shape of the process if two kinds of coins are used to count change. Ex. `(cc 12 2)`.

This process has the following steps:

- 4 `(cc n 2)` nodes 
- For each of the first 3 `(cc n 2)` nodes, we get `R(n, 1)` steps

We notice that for an amount `n`, we can subtract nickels from the amount a maximum of `Floor(n/5) + 1` times before we get a negative value.

To generalize, we know that:

- Neglecting the floor, we have approximately `n/5 + 1` nodes
- For each of these nodes, we have `R(n - 5i, 1)` more nodes, `∀ i` such that `0 <= i <= n/5`

```
R(n, 2) = n/5 + 1 + ∑<i=0, n/5>R(n - 5i, 1)
R(n, 2) = n/5 + 1 + ∑<i=0, n/5>(2n - 10i + 1)
R(n, 2) = n/5 + 1 + 2n^2/5 - 10[(n/5)(n/5+1)/2] + n/5 (summation of n)
R(n, 2) = n/5 + 1 + 2n^2/5 - (n^2/5 + n) + n/5
R(n, 2) = (n^2-3n)/5 + 1
```
Hence, the order of growth of steps for two types of coins is `Θ(n^2)`.

We notice that this pattern continues and can be generalized as such:

```
Order of Growth of Steps, R(n, a) = Θ(n^a)
```